### HOW CAN I PREPARE FOR MY UPCOMING PORTFOLIO PROJECT ASSESSMENT OR TECHNICAL JOB INTERVIEW?

#### Make sure you have all the requirements met

Each portfolio project comes with a `spec.md` (or `spec-js.md`) file containing a list of the requirements.  Go through that file and write down where you're meeting each spec within your project.

For technical job interviews, you may or may not be given an assignment to complete beforehand.  Make sure to complete it well ahead of time (duh?), and review your work so you're comfortable explaining it.  Record yourself explaining your solution, go eat lunch, then sit and listen to yourself.  Do you make sense?  Do you sound like you know what your talking about?  _Do_ you know what you're talking about?  Just kidding, of course you do!  And it's ok to feel some imposter syndrome symptoms, but push your way past them and carry on!

### Practice talking about your code

One of the harder aspects of learning to code is learning to talk about code.  The words can be confusing and have different meanings, and just because you can write good code doesn't mean you can talk good code.  Some tips:

**_Rubber ducking_** - Have a friend, significant other, pet, stuffed animal, or, well, you know-, sit with you while you explain your code to them.  Teach them about the code you've written and the underlying concepts.  If it's a person, have them give you feedback about your clarity and presentation.  If it's a pet or rubber duck, you can ask for feedback, and if you get it, get help.  Just kidding.

**_Record yourself_** - This may seem weird at first, but it's a powerful tool.  Again, teach yourself a concept and explain how you're applying it in your code.  Go through the spec file and explain out loud each part of your implementation.  Stick to short sessions - 5 minutes at a time.  Then listen to your recording.  Where are you struggling to come up with the right words?  You may find areas where your articulation is lacking, and you may uncover some gaps in understanding that you can go study up on!   _Hint:_ It may help to give yourself some time between recording and listening, so go for a walk or watch a tv show, or even come back the next day before you listen to yourself.  This may give you some fresh perspective.

**_Write a blog_** - Another very powerful tool.  Writing an explanation of something uses a different part of the brain than speech (or so I'm told).  Once you've uncovered some areas you don't understand, and/or some areas you're excited to learn more about, write a blog about it!  Go nuts!  Add examples, references, and funny GIFs!  There is no limit to the number of blogs you can write, and a writing a technical blog will almost certainly result in your learning something new.  Plus, sharing a series of well-written blogs to a potential job interviewer can be a great way to showcase your willingness to learn and articulate new concepts.

### Prepare personally and technically

**_Personal preparation_** - Imagine this assessment is a technical interview for a job.  In the case of an actual technical interview for a job, well, you get it...  Treat it as such.  Get plenty of sleep.  Eat well.  Relax, do whatever you do to get your mind to a good place.  If you get anxious about these interviews, that's fine!  Use your anxiety coping mechanisms, or learn new ones.  Groom yourself, and dress as you would for a job interview (we don't need business suits or formal wear, but look presentable).  The tech world is often business casual, but wear something you feel good in, something that gives you confidence.

**_Technical preparation_** Review the previous section - make sure you've talked about your code.  Make sure your code is fresh in your head.  If you've gone ahead in the curriculum, that's fine, but go back and spend some time reviewing your project.  "Oh, wait, I haven't looked at this in, like, a month..." is the interviewer's cue to turn up the heat!  It's also rude, as it shows a lack of respect for the interviewer's time.  Many technical interviews will come with code to review - maybe in the form of an assignment or challenge, but at least a language and/or library to focus on.  Would you walk into a JS tech interview and say, "Oh, I've only been working in Ruby for a while, so let me think about JS syntaxes here for a minute..."?  What languages and libraries were listed on the job description?  Make sure you review them and your knowledge of them.  Google for tech interview questions around the specific language or libraries you'll be interviewing about.  Build a small app using those technologies.  Record yourself explaining some core concepts.
